>> Jerome Hardaway: So
I break it down with my jobs and
making sure I have all that metric
based stuff, now I have my education.
I skip this because my
education doesn't matter.
I just leave it out immediately, when it
comes to college cuz I have a criminal
justice degree from light through this
Community College Air Force and FSU.
No, only time I use that thing
is when I'm trying to figure
out who gave the dogs
too many treats at home.
Literally, which child
is overfeeding the dogs,
it's the only time I have to,
actually use my degree.
So that is where that it ends right there.
Four boys figuring out like detective
work on who's, over treating the dogs.
What I do add though,
I do add all of my certifications
because particularly in this market,
if you're a junior entry level or
getting back into the market tenure.
The certifications help,
they give a lot less time than
going back to school full time or
as low as a boot camp.
They're more centered on
the technology directly and
they give you more credibility and more
chances there's more foot in the door.
Four years ago you asked
me about certifications or
certifications cuz he did experience,
right, being able to talk about it.
But now in his current market,
you do need certifications.
Now people asked me what type of certs,
the way I look at certifications right now
is, you need to go directly to the company
of whatever thing you're trying to start.
If you're gonna try to get certified,
I want something cloud, and
you don't know which cloud
you're gonna do, you do CompTIA.
I hate to say it,
I don't feel like CompTIA is getting
you as far as other certifications are.
But if you're gonna have to pick one,
go AWS, go Azure,
go directly to Microsoft or
directly to AWS,
get those certifications from them so
that way you have that legitimacy, right?
Awards and recognition, you have awards
and recognition at work, do it please.
If you have a word recognition
in your community that's
affiliated with your job,
do it as well, even if it's just or
if they're big awards in your city,
also add them.
My first couple awards had nothing
to do with my job, but they were so
big that if I didn't add them on
my resume, it'd be kinda weird.
Because your people, they Google
you when they, research you and
the biggest problem I would have, I was
omit things and then, drums 40 under 40.
It's, why did you not
put that on your resume?
It's, didn't matter [LAUGH].
But now I know better and I know,
let me put that on my resume so
it doesn't pop up, or something like that.
I make sure, but I'm also much better in
controlling the things that are on my in
my SEO on the Internet now.
So all my stuff is tech related, so
I put that directly in my awards and
recognition projects.
Now here is what we get into a problem
when it comes to the most mid and
senior, right?
Juniors, we already know their problem,
right?
They don't have enough meaty projects,
but mid and senior,
they have projects that they
can't talk about, right?
We've all been in a situation where
the bulk of our work can't be discussed,
right?
Unless you're in e-commerce or
you're in media, right?
Especially, or if you're in government,
you can't really talk about a lot of
the projects that you're on
a lot of the things you built.
So what I recommend is sanitizing
those projects, all right?
And then turn around and
talk about exactly what you build.
We did a project at work with
Kroger that it was sanitized
on my resume until Kroger
did a whole article on it.
Then I was, now that Kroger
has said something about it,
I'm gonna say something about it and
add it to my resume, right?
It's saying wait, as long as
the till the companies say something
about what we're doing, I don't say
anything about, I sanitize it, but
I keep that work that I've
done on my resume, right?
And I talked about I talk about how the
value that I brought within the project,
you have to talk about the project and
the value and the data, right?
This is a data-driven, world.
Even if I have e-commerce platform,
I have a million transactions
a month because we are dealing with
a robot, with your resume the first time,
I am going to have a list of my skills,
plain and simple, right?
For those keywords,
because I can't put everything,
especially if I have technologies that I'm
still proficient in the past 10 years.
I might not put them in here,
because I'm assuming that you know this,
that I'm doing this cuz it's a part
of tech, we can't assume, right?
I can't sit here and assume that
because for all technologists in here,
we know version control is a thing, right?
The robot it's not gonna assume
that I know version control,
that I know GitHub or
I'm using GitLab or what is it,
a subversion or
something like that out there.
So it's not going to assume that, right?
It's not gonna assume what
text editor that I use,
I'm gonna put I,
use VS code is my workflow, use GitHub,
I'm gonna talk about the tools I
use a lot have Docker experience.
I do a lot of infrastructure as code and
I make sure I say, I don't use acronyms.
I try my best to still do
everything you can to stay away
from acronyms on your resume, and you have
IAC that means nothing to the computer.
Infrastructure is code though,
that means something,
that's a keyword term that means
something to the machine, right?
Then when it sees that and it starts
looking for what tools that you've used,
cuz it's gonna go to your skills or
your Docker.
You got Kubernetes, you have Jenkins,
you have all these, you have AWS Azure,
you have these tools on here, they're also
gonna be used with infrastructure as code.
Now that's starting to make sense, right?
Make sure you have your skills on here and
you're not using any unless their comment.
If I'm gonna use Postgres SQL or
SQL, however way you say it,
I don't whatever,
I'm not gonna argue with you on that.
That's one that I'm gonna use it on.
That's my first database I ever learned.
And funny story DARPA actually funded
the creation of that with Stanford,
so it has military background.
So and I also put yourself skills, right?
Leadership, communication,
problem solving, team collaboration, I put
leadership on mine all the time because I
do a lot of leadership
work in volunteering.
So I was vets who code, so people see that
and I wanna make sure they know that I
know how to lead even at the lowest level,
even at a social impact level, right?
I have that leadership ability.
Your local tech meet ups, I think
that's coming back now, after a couple
of years due to COVID, people
are starting to meet up more in public.
I'm actually a big fan of going to
your local tech meet ups, doing talks,
that's one thing that helps your
imposter syndrome starting locally.
Asking for feedback going in there and
it helps you network as well, right?
People help you work on
your things while there.
I think local,
tech meet ups should have a section where
they're just doing job prep
because that's something that
would make those local tech
meet ups more impactful, right?
And of course, publications, even if
it's your own blog, if it's something
that was popular that you may wanna
make them the listen, write or read.
I have always put a publication or
something I wrote on my portfolio,
I mean on my resume, even if I
wrote it and it was on medium and
no one cared to the,
now where I do write it.
I can write an external thing and
someone might be, yeah,
we're gonna put that out in the world and
people care.
Always show people that you're
always trying to share knowledge.
Always, that's why we have people always
asking for your Stack Overflow or
they used to,
I don't know if they do that now.
But I know now, five,
six years ago, he said always,
hey at your Stack Overflow at your
LinkedIn at your GitHub, right?
But the reason they were asking for
your Stack Overflow is to see how you
communicate it and how you shared
knowledge to other people, right?
So blogging is a way of doing that
blogging, vlogging, streaming like
this world is so different now, I have
had students get jobs off of vlogging.
Same blog, same people jobs I've
seen vlogs I've seen tweets.
There's no wrong way than doing this
when you're building out a public,
I've seen projects,
I've seen products, I've seen list.
This world is crazy,
put anything that is getting traction and
puts sets you apart from everybody.
This is where you start building your
personality and your highlight reel on
a second page, first page is all,
we have this talk about sizzle and steak.
You do it in reverse where the first page
is all the steak where you're also your
making a strong case database,
analytical case, right there for ATS.
But then as you get further down, you're
able to start sharing more personality and
put more sizzle on it, right?
So it would be,
if you were to do something Suvi, right?
You'll click it, Suvi, and then you would
sizzle, you'll see it later, type deal.
So I guess a resume should be
more like a Suvi steak then.